Welcome back so.
In the last lesson we took a look at how to use this query component that we got from reactor Paulo.
We used it by passing in a literal query using the GQ Well function that we used in order for us to
make a request to this query which will then give us back our data as well as a loading state an error
state if anything happened there so that we can handle in this function what we want to actually render
in this section.
Let's actually use a different query that we've already seen before and let's query for our collection
by the title based on our collection program.
So as you remember we currently use a selector inside of our collection component to handle this inside
of this collection component.
We are doing it like so well.
This is not going to work for us anymore because we don't use redux.
So let's strip this out let's get rid of this connect and let's remove the actual dependencies themselves.
Now this component is still going to just receive the collection and we're going to actually pass it
to it from the collection container that we're going to build.
So we're gonna say collection dot container dot JSF and inside of this container we are going to import
in react from react because as we know we're writing a component we're going to import in that same
query component from reactive Paula we're going to import in GQ will so nothing is new here.
We're not importing anything definitely and then we're gonna import in the collection page itself
and here we need the component.
And we also need the spinner from spinner spinner component.
Okay so we have all our imports now in order for us to make this query.
We actually have to write it out a little differently most of it is going to be the same.
The only difference is that we're going to take this out again get collection by.
Well can't spell by title equals GQ well.
And then our string interpolation.
So nothing different.
Here we're going to say query as we normally do except what we're going to pass into this query is this
term.
Yet collections by title we're gonna give it the brackets and here we're going to say dollar title which
is a string.
So what this means is that we're saying that we want to make a query request right using a query in
our server that we're used to seeing so we want to make this query.
And here we define the shape of what it expects.
So we're going to say that what we're gonna get here is a object called Dollar title.
And the reason we're going to do this is because out of this we're going to put our brackets and we're
gonna say get collections by title here and here we're going to pass the title property with our dollar
title value.
So I'll explain to you why we have to do this because when we make this request we actually have to
pass in to this query request when we actually write out a query component.
This title variable that is now suddenly expected.
So what we're saying is that this title value that we're gonna get is going to be a string.
And what we want to set it to is the actual title that the query itself is expecting in the back and
it's just the way that we have to write it.
It seems verbose but this is just the way that graphical expects it.
After that we can pretty much just say once we get back our object these are the data values that we
want.
So we want the I.D. We want the title and then we want our items I.D. name price and image row.
So that's the same.
The biggest difference is just that we when we define this query if we want it to be dynamic right in
the sense that we want to pass a title through to it we've got a use and leverage this syntax where
we almost seem to write it twice because we define the query we define what type it's expecting and
then we define actually what we're going to have to make against it.
Right.
And then we define the variable that we're going to pass it in as if this seems confusing it'll make
sense once you get this next section because we're gonna say concept collection page container is equal
to us getting our match object because we're gonna replace this inside of our root component on our
shop page.
So we're gonna get our match history.
We only want the match though.
And here what we're gonna say is we want to render out the query and what we want to pass into the query
is this create a key where the query goes to this collection by title query now in order to pass the
variable in.
We actually have to do it here.
So here we're gonna say variable Zar equals and then it's going to be an object where the name of the
variable that we want to pass in.
So we want to pass the title variable in is going to be the actual value.
So here we're going to say match dot param stock collection.
Right.
Which is what we were using for our parameter and now inside of the function that we get back we are
gonna d structure off the loading and the data and off the data now that we know we want our get collections
by title.
So as you we remember when the data comes back to us the actual object is going to be the name of the
query itself.
And we knew that this name was this name so once we have our object what we're going to render is we're
going to say if loading then return the spinner
otherwise return our collection page so if you want here you can actually use a ternary operator instead
of this f statement so collection here is going to go to our Get collections by title which might look
a little confusing but that's just the property name on data that our actual collection object is nested
under so once we've done that let's just go over what we did.
This variables key is the way that we pass in variables that are dynamic queries are expecting we have
to pass them in with the value matching the actual value that we want to pass into the query.
You've got to remember the first thing that you define will be the actual name of the query that you're
making against so once we have that we export this out as our default
and then we're gonna go to our shop page component and just replace our collection page the same way
we did earlier with our collections overview and we're going to set default as collection.
Page and if we save this go back to our application go to our hearts page we'll see that it works.
This is now fetching against our database for our 1 specific collection.
We used our new get collections by title in order to get the actual item and it's almost as if we are
selecting against our backend right in order to make this query.
So you'll kind of feel like what we're writing is functions in order to fetch data from our backend.
And that's one of the cool things about using Apollo and graphic.
Well is that it almost just feels like we're treating our database as something that's part of our front
end application.
It doesn't feel as much like we're using promises that much anymore because so much of the promises
is hidden away by Apollo.
So that's one of the really nice things about working with it is that you don't have to spend so much
time thinking about what promises am I going to resolve right.
Do I need an async await here.
It pretty much all gets extrapolated away for us.
So now that we've seen how to fetch data from a backend we can actually also leverage Apollo for more
than that so you might be thinking well this is great and all right for things that we fetched from
a back in.
But what about our front end.
What about data that we store in front of.
Do we still have to pass it around and fetch it every time using these queries.
And what about data like our cart.
We can't make requests against our back end in order to store cart.
Right.
We still might have to use redux.
Well that's actually not the case.
Apollo has pretty much brought that into the front end as well and they have their own solution that
lines up with how we're making our queries so that it's a unified way of making requests against a back
end server as it is against making a request for local data.
And I'll show you how we can do that in the next lesson.